that's the
you got I can wrestle it to be wrestling
now we'll go right here
there you go
he can bite well show you the mouth of
this thing you know she can see what the
prey sees when he comes anything they'll
fit in that mouth he'll grab it idea you
can hold him you just want to put your
hands all the way under he come all the
way all the way hold him up close to you
yeah how about they got him yeah this is
the top predator in this river this is a
what a 25-pound flathead catfish you see
those protrusions from it from his head
those are barbels they sense vibration
in the mud at on the riverbed but the
most interesting thing about the catfish
is that she really is in some ways one
big tongue there are taste sensors
covering every every part of her body
and she can build up a three-dimensional
picture of the river by detecting the
chemical scents of animals so her eyes
are not much use as you can see this
river is extremely muddy but it's the
sense of taste that does the job of
building up a picture of the world and
that's how he comes Sammy weighs a ton
I can feel this teeth ow
and they let go yeah all right you go up
the sensory world of the catfish is a
remarkable one its map of its universe
is built from the thousands of chemicals
that can detect in the water a swirling
mix of tastes and concentrations
flavours and gradients it's a world we
can hardly imagine
there's an interesting almost
philosophical point here because it's
easy to imagine that we humans perceive
the world is some kind of objective way
but that's not the case at all I mean
think about the catfished the catfish
sees the world as a kind of swarm of
chemicals in the river of vibrations on
the riverbed whereas we see the world as
reflected light of the forest and I can
hear the sounds of animals out there
somewhere in the undergrowth catfish
sees the world completely differently so
the way you perceive the world is
determined by your environment and no
two animals see the world in the same
way